Add optimized percolator chapter by @MyonKeminta (#32)
tikv/website: content/deep-dive/distributed-transaction/optimized-percolator.md

## Short Value in Write Column

As said before, TiKV uses RocksDB's column families to save different columns of Percolator. Different column families of RocksDB is actually different LSM-Trees. When we accessing a value we need to first search the `CF_WRITE` to find next record's `start_ts`, and then search the corresponding record in `CF_DEFAULT`. If a value is very small, it is a waste to search RocksDB twice.

There's an optimization for short values to avoid touching `CF_DEFAULT` in TiKV. If the value is short enough, the value will not be put into `CF_DEFAULT` during prewrite phase. Instead, it will be inlined in the lock and saved in `CF_LOCK`. Then in commit phase, the value will be moved out from the lock and inlined in the write record. Therefore, we do not need to touch `CF_DEFAULT` to access and manipulate short values.

> ## Point Get Without Timestamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Point Read Without Timestamp
```

Timestamps are critical to provide the isolation. For every transaction, we allocate a unique `start_ts` for it, and ensures a transaction T can only see data committed before T's `start_ts`.

But if a transaction T does nothing but reads a single key, is it really necessary to allocate it a `start_ts`? The answer is no. We can simply read newest version directly, because it's equivalent to reading with `start_ts` which is exactly the instant when the key is read. It's even ok to read a locked key, because it's equivalent to reading with `start_ts` allocated before the lock's `start_ts`.

> ## Calculated Commit Ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Calculated Commit Timestamp
```

{{< warning >}}

> This optimization haven't been finished yet, but will be available in the future. [RFC](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/pull/25).

Author: Do we have any tracking issues for this @MyonKeminta ?

Author: Ping @MyonKeminta

> This optimization haven't been finished yet, but will be available in the future. [RFC](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/pull/25).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This optimization hasn't been finished yet, but will be available in the future. [RFC](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/pull/25).
```

repeatable. The `commit_ts` should be large enough so that the transaction will
not be committed before a valid read. Otherwise, Repeatable Read will be broken.
For example:

1. Txn1 gets `start_ts` 100
2. Txn2 gets `start_ts` 200
3. Txn2 reads key `"k1"` and gets value `"1"`
4. Txn1 prewrites `"k1"` with value `"2"`
5. Txn1 commits with `commit_ts` 101
6. Tnx2 reads key `"k1"` and gets value `"2"`

Txn2 reads `"k1"` twice but gets two different results. If `commit_ts` is
allocated from PD, this will not happen, because Txn2's first read must happen
before Txn1's prewrite while Txn1's `commit_ts` must be requested after
finishing prewrite. And as a result, Txn2's `commit_ts` must be larger than
Txn1's `start_ts`.

On the other hand, `commit_ts` can't be arbitrarily large. If the `commit_ts` is
ahead of the actual time, the committed data may be unreadable by other new
transactions, which breaks integrity. We are not sure whether a timestamp is
ahead of the actual time if we don't ask PD.

To conclude, in order not to break the Snapshot Isolation and the integrity, a
valid range for `commit_ts` should be:

```text
max{start_ts, max_read_ts_of_written_keys} < commit_ts <= now
```

> So here comes an idea to calculate the commit_ts:

Reviewer: "idea" is too general and causal  
```suggestion
So here comes a method to calculate the commit_ts:
```

```text
commit_ts = max{start_ts, region_1_max_read_ts, region_2_max_read_ts, ...} + 1
```

where `region_N_max_read_ts` is the maximum timestamp of all reads on the
region, for all regions involved in the transaction.

## Single Region 1PC

{{< warning >}}

> This optimization haven't been finished yet, but will be available in the future.

Author: Do we have any tracking issues for this @MyonKeminta ?

Author: Ping @MyonKeminta

{{</ warning >}}

> For non-distributed databases, it's easy to provide ACID transactions; but for distributed databases, usually 2PC(two-phase commit) is required to make transactions ACID. Percolator provides such a 2PC algorithm, which is adopted by TiKV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For non-distributed databases, it's easy to provide ACID transactions; but for distributed databases, usually 2PC (two-phase commit) is required to make transactions ACID. Percolator provides such a 2PC algorithm, which is adopted by TiKV.
```
